2014-12-28


Learning to be Stupid


This post is my random thought on learning stupidity. It appears to me that the
modern consumer gets permanently subjected to stupidity. The stupid will pay a
lot of money, but in return he will not get enraged over things that should be
simple.

There is a concrete example that sparked me writing this post, and it will
explain what I mean. I had to get my car repaired. The shop kept calling about
wanting to do this and that, and I agreed. After their second call, I thought a
little more about what they had said. Quickly it became quite obvious to me
that the solution they had propsed was not going to help. They called later
that day, and as predicted, that had not fixed the problem. But they had
replaced different part, that clearly showed what was at fault. Clearly, they
had not done a proper diagnostic (although I paid for that).

Now, OK, you may think this post should be about car repair shops trying to
pull money out of unknowing customers. Indeed, one could probably make a post
about that. But here I want to explore what the effect of this kind of
mini-fraud has on us consumers.

From my point of view, what has really happened is that the repair shop
expected me to be dumb (not a bad expectation), and the mechanics did not set a
good example. They did not show that a proper and quick diagnostic is possible,
although I now have good reason to believe that a proper diagnostic is both
simple and quick. The point being here, however, is that the impression the
mechanics give is that repairing cars is by trial and error. They have set a
bad example of how to fix a car.

This is just a recent example. Another, well-known example is a call to
customer service. This one is much less obvious because the technology may be
much harder to know and fix well.

Anyway, if consumers are constantly subjected to this kind of stupidity, will
the consumer itself learn to be stupid? It appears to me that the answer is
yes. Consider what would have happened if I had just agreed to everything all
the way through? OK, my car would work. Yes, they did know in the end what was
wrong with it. Also, I would think that fixing a car is a lot of work. Trying
this, then that. Given how much I would have done, it probably is cheaper to
have a shop do it, right? But the proper answer is, that if the shop had done
their diagnostics correctly, the car could have been fixed in no time.

Similar with the call center representative. They just tell you to reinstall,
try this and that, but proper debugging looks different. It searches for error
messages.

Are we being educated to be stupid? To not learn how to fix things? I cannot
help but think that it appears so. We are learning to be stupid.
